docs: Numeric and Non-numeric Quality Inspection (#229)
frappe/erpnext_documentation: erpnext_documentation/www/docs/user/manual/en/stock/quality-inspection.md

<img class="screenshot" alt="Quality Inspection" src="{{docs_base_url}}/assets/img/stock/quality-inspection.png">

## 3. Features

A single Quality Inspection consists of many Quality Checks (Parameters) within it. Each of these checks could be [Numeric](#31-numeric-quality-checks), [Non-numeric](#32-non-numeric-value-based-quality-checks) or [Formula Based](#33-formula-based-quality-checks).

### 3.1 Numeric Quality Checks
Numeric Quality Checks include all checks that require number based readings and acceptance criteria.

E.g. checking if a reading is in a certain range.

By default the checks are numeric. There are two fields: **Minimum Value** and **Maximum Value**, to define a range that **each** reading must be in. These fields can be set in the Quality Inspection Template once and be simply fetched into the Quality Inspection.

<img class="screenshot" alt="Numeric Quality Check" src="{{docs_base_url}}/assets/img/stock/quality-inspection-numeric-reading.png">

If any of the readings entered are not within this range, the status on the row will be set to 'Rejected' automatically on Save.

> ### 3.2 Non-numeric (Value Based) Quality Checks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3.2 Non-numeric (Value-Based) Quality Checks
```

Non-numeric Quality Checks include checks that require alphabetical values or those that do not require any mathematical calculations.

E.g. checking if the color is white in a color quality check, Yes/No values for certain parameters, etc.

> For Non-numeric checks enable the 'Non-numeric' checkbox. You will notice a field **Acceptance Criteria Value** and a section **Value Based Inspection** are visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Non-numeric checks, enable the 'Non-numeric' checkbox. You will notice the field **Acceptance Criteria Value** and a section **Value-Based Inspection**.
```

> You can simply enter the field Reading Value. The Acceptance Criteria Value can be set in the Quality Inspection Template once and be simply fetched into the Quality Inspection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter the field Reading Value. The Acceptance Criteria Value can be set in the Quality Inspection Template once and then be fetched into the Quality Inspection.
```

<img class="screenshot" alt="Non-numeric Quality Check" src="{{docs_base_url}}/assets/img/stock/quality-inspection-non-numeric-reading.png">

If the Reading Value does not match the Acceptance Criteria Value, the status on the row will be set to 'Rejected' automatically on Save.

> ### 3.3 Formula Based Quality Checks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3.3 Formula-Based Quality Checks
```

> Formula Based Quality Checks are useful for more complex scenarios where just specifying a range or an acceptance value is not enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Formula-Based Quality Checks are useful for more complex scenarios where just specifying a range or an acceptance value is not enough.
```

> E.g. checking if the grade of a material is A/B/C, checking if the mean of some readings is in a certain range, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
E.g. checking if the grade of a material is A/B/C, checking if the mean of some reading is within a certain range, etc.
```

Author: should be `readings`. Cant take mean of one reading

> Formula Based Quality Checks are applicable to Numeric and Non-numeric Quality Checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Formula-Based Quality Checks are applicable to Numeric and Non-numeric Quality Checks.
```

> Enable the 'Formula Based Criteria' checkbox to perform a Formula Based Quality Check. You will then notice a field called **Acceptance Criteria Formula** where you can specify a formula that determines whether a certain check is Accepted or Rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the 'Formula Based Criteria' checkbox to perform a Formula-Based Quality Check. You will then notice a field called **Acceptance Criteria Formula** where you can specify a formula that determines whether a certain check is Accepted or Rejected.
```

> This formula can be set in the Quality Inspection Template once and be simply fetched into the Quality Inspection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This formula can be set in the Quality Inspection Template once and then be fetched into the Quality Inspection.
```

<img class="screenshot" alt="Acceptance Criteria Formula" src="{{docs_base_url}}/assets/img/stock/acceptance-criteria-formula.png">

This formula depends on the many Reading fields in the Readings table.

For Numeric readings, `reading_1`, `reading_2` and so on are accepted in the formula.

For Non-numeric readings, only `reading_value` is accepted in the formula.

Here are some examples of formulas:
```py
# Numeric
(reading_1 + reading_2) < 10 # sum of both readings is less than 10
(reading_1 + reading_2) <= 10 # sum of both readings is less than or equal to 10
mean < 15  # mean of non empty numeric readings is less than 15
(reading_1 * 2) < 20 # Reading 1 multiplied by 2 is less than 20
(reading_1) / 2 < 20 # Reading 1 divided by 2 is less than 20

# Non-numeric
reading_value in ("A", "B", "C") # Reading Value is either A / B / C
reading_value != "Red" # Reading Value is not equal to Red
```
Update the readings and Save. The Status field in the Readings table rows is set automatically based on the formula for acceptance.

### 3.3 Manual Inspection

> So far all the Quality Checks have automatic acceptance/rejection on Save. In the real world, there could be cases where a check is rejected but yet will be accepted because there is some tolerance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, all the Quality Checks have automatic acceptance/rejection on Save. In the real world, there could be cases where a check is rejected but yet will be accepted because there is some tolerance.
```
